{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2868
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red202\green202\blue202;\red23\green23\blue23;\red70\green137\blue204;
\red183\green111\blue179;\red140\green211\blue254;\red212\green214\blue154;\red167\green197\blue152;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c83137\c83137\c83137;\cssrgb\c11765\c11765\c11765;\cssrgb\c33725\c61176\c83922;
\cssrgb\c77255\c52549\c75294;\cssrgb\c61176\c86275\c99608;\cssrgb\c86275\c86275\c66667;\cssrgb\c70980\c80784\c65882;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww28260\viewh17660\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Overview\cb1 \
\cb3 This guide helps users identify \cf4 \strokec4 and\cf2 \strokec2  resolve common problems when a VPN connection fails \cf4 \strokec4 or\cf2 \strokec2  behaves unexpectedly. It \cf4 \strokec4 is\cf2 \strokec2  designed \cf5 \strokec5 for\cf2 \strokec2  \cf6 \strokec6 general\cf2 \strokec2  IT support use.\cb1 \
\cb3 Common Symptoms\cb1 \
\cb3 \'95 Unable to connect to the VPN at \cf7 \strokec7 all\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \
\cb3 \'95 VPN connects but no internet access\cb1 \
\cb3 \'95 Frequent disconnects\cb1 \
\cb3 \'95 Authentication \cf4 \strokec4 or\cf2 \strokec2  MFA errors\cb1 \
\cb3 \'95 \'93Server \cf4 \strokec4 not\cf2 \strokec2  reachable\'94 messages\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Initial Checks\cb1 \
\cb3 \'95 Confirm your internet connection \cf4 \strokec4 is\cf2 \strokec2  active.\cb1 \
\cb3 \'95 Ensure airplane mode \cf4 \strokec4 is\cf2 \strokec2  off \cf4 \strokec4 and\cf2 \strokec2  the network adapter \cf4 \strokec4 is\cf2 \strokec2  enabled.\cb1 \
\cb3 \'95 Restart your computer \cf4 \strokec4 and\cf2 \strokec2  router.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Step \cf8 \strokec8 1\cf2 \strokec2 : Verify Credentials \cf4 \strokec4 and\cf2 \strokec2  MFA\cb1 \
\cb3 \'95 Confirm you are using correct login credentials.\cb1 \
\cb3 \'95 Check that MFA apps \cf4 \strokec4 or\cf2 \strokec2  tokens are working.\cb1 \
\cb3 \'95 After a password change, sign out of other devices \cf4 \strokec4 and\cf2 \strokec2  \cf5 \strokec5 try\cf2 \strokec2  again.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Step \cf8 \strokec8 2\cf2 \strokec2 : Check VPN Client Status\cb1 \
\cb3 \'95 Ensure the VPN client \cf4 \strokec4 is\cf2 \strokec2  updated.\cb1 \
\cb3 \'95 Restart the VPN application.\cb1 \
\cb3 \'95 Test other available VPN servers \cf4 \strokec4 or\cf2 \strokec2  gateways.\cb1 \
\cb3 \'95 Remove \cf4 \strokec4 or\cf2 \strokec2  disable old VPN profiles.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Step \cf8 \strokec8 3\cf2 \strokec2 : Network \cf4 \strokec4 and\cf2 \strokec2  Firewall Checks\cb1 \
\cb3 \'95 Avoid guest Wi\uc0\u8209 Fi networks that block VPN traffic.\cb1 \
\cb3 \'95 Disable personal VPNs \cf4 \strokec4 or\cf2 \strokec2  proxies temporarily.\cb1 \
\cb3 \'95 Check \cf5 \strokec5 if\cf2 \strokec2  local firewall \cf4 \strokec4 or\cf2 \strokec2  antivirus \cf4 \strokec4 is\cf2 \strokec2  blocking the VPN program.\cb1 \
\cb3 \'95 Ensure device compliance requirements are met.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Step \cf8 \strokec8 4\cf2 \strokec2 : Check \cf5 \strokec5 for\cf2 \strokec2  \cf6 \strokec6 Conflicting\cf2 \strokec2  Connections\cb1 \
\cb3 \'95 Disconnect \cf5 \strokec5 from\cf2 \strokec2  other remote\uc0\u8209 access tools.\cb1 \
\cb3 \'95 Turn off mobile hotspots/tethering temporarily.\cb1 \
\cb3 \'95 Avoid simultaneous Wi\uc0\u8209 Fi \cf4 \strokec4 and\cf2 \strokec2  Ethernet connections \cf5 \strokec5 with\cf2 \strokec2  conflicting routes.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Step \cf8 \strokec8 5\cf2 \strokec2 : Restart Network Components\cb1 \
\cb3 \'95 Restart your computer.\cb1 \
\cb3 \'95 Restart your router \cf4 \strokec4 or\cf2 \strokec2  modem.\cb1 \
\cb3 \'95 Reconnect to your local network \cf4 \strokec4 and\cf2 \strokec2  retry the VPN.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Step \cf8 \strokec8 6\cf2 \strokec2 : Reinstall \cf4 \strokec4 or\cf2 \strokec2  Reset the VPN Client\cb1 \
\cb3 \'95 Sign out of the VPN client.\cb1 \
\cb3 \'95 Uninstall \cf4 \strokec4 and\cf2 \strokec2  reinstall the VPN application.\cb1 \
\cb3 \'95 Download the latest configuration \cf5 \strokec5 if\cf2 \strokec2  required.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 When to Contact Support\cb1 \
\cb3 Provide IT \cf5 \strokec5 with\cf2 \strokec2 :\cb1 \
\cb3 \'95 Operating system \cf4 \strokec4 and\cf2 \strokec2  VPN client version\cb1 \
\cb3 \'95 Exact error message\cb1 \
\cb3 \'95 Whether issue occurs on \cf7 \strokec7 all\cf2 \strokec2  networks\cb1 \
\cb3 \'95 Whether this \cf4 \strokec4 is\cf2 \strokec2  a new device\cb1 \
\cb3 \'95 Any recent changes to device \cf4 \strokec4 or\cf2 \strokec2  password\cb1 \
\cb3 Important Notes\cb1 \
\cb3 \'95 Do \cf4 \strokec4 not\cf2 \strokec2  modify system VPN files unless authorized.\cb1 \
\cb3 \'95 Do \cf4 \strokec4 not\cf2 \strokec2  install unauthorized VPN clients.\cb1 \
\cb3 \'95 If you suspect a lockout, contact IT rather than retrying multiple times.}